---
layout: page_public
title: List to K8s
meta: Overview Meta
permalink: /lists/
---

# Lists

Starting with a list on an empty spread sheet feels to be very easy and natural.

You think of some values, some headers and then you can start filling the cells.


## Computation

Perhaps THE most useful feature of spreadsheets is the equal sign with you can start a cell.
With an 
<code>
=A1+A2
</code>
You can sum up values of different cells


## Graphical Analysis

With an Insert and Graph you can get a vizalisation of your data.


## Analysis

With the Pivot Table funcationatliy, you can get aggregations in a very convenient way.


# Example: A simple registration list

Let's make up an example that leads us through this and the following steps.
Imagine you get the task to organize an event for a team. 
Each team member can register for the event and during this registration you get the first and last name of the team member. That's all you need in this context about the person herself.
The registration might be realized as an email sent by the team member to you, and the team member states that he or she wants to participate.

Hence, the first task is to make a list with all registered persons.
As the event comes with some fee, every team member must pay an amout of money, 50€ say.
In a second step, you need to enhance the list with the information about the registree having paid his or her fee.


{% include images/image.html imagePath = "../images/img_public/listwithnames.PNG" imageCaption =  "Typical list with registrees (names generated by a random name generator) and column indicating if the fee was paid"%}

At the end, you have a list that does its job: to keep track of registered team members and the information whether or the registree has paid his or her fee.



## Analysis

Obvious questions for analysis are
- How many team members have registered?
- How many have paid?
- How much money should have been received?
- How much payment is still open?



{% include images/image.html imagePath = "../images/img_public/PivotNamesPaid.PNG" imageCaption = 
"Pivot list showing the names of team members who already paid their fees and the sum of collected fees" %}

A Pivot table can very easily be created and configured. 
The Pivot table shows you nicely who has paid the fee, how much the total paied amount should be and the number of employees who paid.


## Graphical Overview

For the next team meeting, you were asked to present how much money is still missing.
With a few computations more, you can show impressively that still a substantial percentage is missing.

{% include images/image.html imagePath = "../images/img_public/GraphForNamesPayment.PNG" imageCaption = "Graphics showing the percentage of missing fees" %}


## Conclusion

For a simple task, you are completely fine with a digital list as shown here. 
Excel or LibreOffice have proven to be sufficient for such tasks.




























